CHUNK 1
-
philosophy 3: critical thinking uc santa barbara spring 2024 instructor: jon charry email: jcharry@ucsb.edu office hours: mon 9:30am, wed 1pm>>5
office: south hall 5706>>5
ta: steven canet, email: shcanet@ucsb.edu section: mon 2-2:50pm, 3-3:50pm at phelps hall 2514 office hours: mon, wed 9:30-10:30am at south hall 5706 ta: david king, email: daking@ucsb.edu>>5
section: wed 5-5:50pm at ilp, 4205; wed 6-6:50pm at ilp 3312>>4
office hours: wed 4-5pm at philosophy common room and by appointment ta: jiyao tang, email: jiyao@ucsb.edu section: wed 11-11:50am, 12-12:50pm at south hall 5617 office hours: tue, thur 9:30-10:30am at south hall 5706 ta: flavio tisi, email: flaviotisi@ucsb.edu section: tue 4-4:50pm at ilp, 3310; tue 5-5:50pm at ilp, 4205 office hours: tue 3-4pm, wed 10-11am at south hall 5721 course description this course is designed to sharpen your reasoning abilities. we cover three main topics: assessing validity for propositional logic, proofs in propositional logic, and reasoning under conditions of limited or uncertain information (inductive logic and probabilistic reasoning). this class is about as difficult as an introductory calculus class. required materials well use the textbook logic from the schaums outlines series (2nd edition). you can get a copy on amazon for around $20. the ucsb bookstore will also be stocked. please let me or a ta know if you are struggling to get a copy. 1>>5
-
CHUNK 2
-
critical thinking spring 2024 course structure class structure we will meet>>5
mondays and wednesdays from 8-9:15am at ilp 2302>>3
note: i will hold office hours on mondays from 9:30-10:30am and wednesdays from 1-2pm. if you are not able to make it then, feel free to email me and we can arrange a different time to meet. i am happy to answer any kind of question you might have about the course, the material, or just about philosophy in general if you just want to chat, so please do not hesitate to reach out to me or one of your tas! section you will meet with your ta in section once a week. im happy to let students switch into different sections for scheduling convenience at the discretion of the relevant ta. see the info at the top of this syllabus. your ta will decide how they will conduct section each week. assignments you will have weekly homework assignments consisting of exercises. these exercises will closely follow what well be doing in class that week and also what youll be tested on in the midterms and final. youll upload these assignments on canvas on fridays by midnight. late work is not accepted, but your lowest two scores will be dropped from your final grade. grading policy i reserve the right to curve the grades. any curve will only ever make it easier to obtain a certain letter grade. the grade will count the assessments using the following proportions:  20% of your grade = midterm 1 (in class may 1)  20% of your grade = midterm 2 (in class may 29)  30% of your grade = final exam  15% of your grade = homework  10% of your grade = lecture attendance  5% of your grade = section attendance course policies attendance policy as outlined in the grading policy, class and section attendance are mandatory and both will be factored into final grades. absences in section and lecture are excused, at the discretion of the me or a ta, only when properly justified beforehand. together, section and lecture attendance make up 15% of your grade. this is a fairly big chunk and its easy to get, just show up! 2/4>>5
critical thinking spring 2024 late work homeworks are not accepted late and are not excused unless you contact me or a ta beforehand. academic honesty you are strongly encouraged to work together! so please do not let a fear of being accused of plagiarism prevent you from working in groups. however, per ucsb policy, academic dishonesty (cheating, plagiarism, etc.) will still be prose- cuted with due harshness. ignorance is no excuse. for more information, please ask myself or the ta, or visit the ucsb office of judicial affairs website. please approach myself or one of your tas if you have any questions regarding this.  it is possible to use chatgpt or other llms to learn the content of the course. however, you are strongly cautioned from using chatgpt to learn, for example, the system of logic that we will be learning. it is very difficult to get chatgpt to consistently know what you are talking about. so you might as well spend the time learning the material for yourself rather than risk getting really bad feedback from chatgpt. students with disabilities and inclusivity please let me know if you plan on or have already communicated with the dsp office about accommodations due to any disability. discrimination based on race, color, religion, creed, sex, national origin, age, disability, veteran status, and then or sexual orientation is a violation of state and federal law and/or university of california policy and will not be tolerated. my classroom is, hopefully, a safe and tolerant space for students of diverse backgrounds to express their thoughts or concerns. student resources for general academic support, students are encouraged to visit campus learning assistance services (clas) early and often. clas offers instructional groups, drop-in tutoring, writing and esl services, skills workshops and one-on-one consultations. clas is located on the third floor of the student resource building, or visit http://clas.sa.ucsb.edu.  personal concerns such as stress, anxiety, relationships, depression, can interfere with the ability of students to succeed and thrive. for helpful resources, i recommend con- tacting ucsb counseling & psychological services (caps) at 805-893-4411 or visit http://counseling.sa.ucsb.edu/. 3/4>>5
critical thinking spring 2024 tentative schedule the schedule is tentative and subject to change. weeks 1-4 arguments, propositional logic  arguments, deductive and inductive arguments, premises, conclusions, validity, sound- ness  learning a new formal language (w.f.f.), truth-functional connectives, translating from propositional logic to english and vice versa, assessing arguments in english  truth tables, indirect truth tables for invalidity, tableaux methods (ch.1-3 of schaums logic) weeks 5-8 natural deduction for propositional logic  the propositional calculus: writing a formal proof, inference rules, discharging assump- tions, derived rules, theorems, logical equivalences (ch.4 of schaums logic)>>5
midterm 1 on may 1>>2
(week 5) weeks 9-10 probability  classic puzzles of probability, basic probability with counting  truth tables with probability measures  the probabilistic calculus (kolmogorovs axioms), conditional probability, applications (ch.10 of schaums logic)>>5
midterm 2 on june 3>>2
(week 10) week 11 06/10-06/14:>>5
final exam on june [date] at [time]>>2
